From Hanselman it's dot com.
It's Hanselman. It's a weekly
discussion with web developer and
technologists. Scott Hanselman. This is
Lawrence Ryan announcing show number two
26. Recorded live Monday, August 9th, 2010.
Support for Hansel minutes is
provided by Telerik rad controls,
the most comprehensive suite of
components for windows forms and
asp.net web applications. online@wwwdottelerik.com. In
this episode, Scott talks about
the ultimate developer PC 2.0
with Pete Brown. Hi, this
is Scott Hanselman. This is
another episode of Hansel minutes.
We've got Pete Brown on
the phone, Pete and I
have been trying to build
God's own computer and failed.
I think that God has
a much nicer computer than
we do, but how are
you, Pete? I'm good. How
are you, Scott? Not too
bad. Not too bad. I've
been running this machine, this
new machine, the new ultimate
developer PC 2.04. What is
it now? A couple of
weeks. It's been what? A
week or two? At least.
Yeah, it's it's is really
quite lovely. I can definitely
go into your house or
anything. So it sounds like
it's working. Yeah, it does.
I haven't had any blue
screens. It doesn't, I don't
have to think about it.
It is extremely fast just
in the last week. I've
like builds. I don't even
think about bills. Nothing, no
project I'm working on is,
is massive enough to, for
this thing even blink out.
So every time I have
control shift B it's five
seconds tops or less, mostly
less. And for encoding videos
and stuff, it's, it's insane.
I had a video recently
that was going to take
something like 13 hours on
my laptop and ended up
taking like, you know, just
like 20 or 30 minutes.
There's a big HD video.
I had had no trouble
at all. So from a
raw processor, power, I'm thrilled.
I'm thrilled. What is the
status of your machine? Mine
is still sitting here on
my desk in a kind
of a benchtop configuration. So
I'm still playing around with
some tweaking, some of the
things and getting ready to
put the water cooling in
it. But I did the
live build of it and
tested it out and installed
windows like a hundred times,
which happens and you know,
like nine minutes or something
crazy like that. This, Oh
my goodness. This is, hang
on a second. This is
going to, we're going to
keep this in the show.
I think, because this is
a, this is just how
wonderful podcast is. Let me
see here. Is there a
man in my backyard mowing
the lawn? Of course there
is a dog barking next
door. Of course there is
Nice. I'm going to hang
on one second and I'm
just going to grab my
portable audio booth and I'm
going to just put it
in front of me here.
Change the audio, but keep
it rolling. Hanging out with
there. Alrighty. So now I'm
sequestered in my tiny audio
booth. This is your booth.
What's that? This is like
you have like the tartest
in your room or something.
What is, what is this
audio booth? It is a,
probably a two foot by
two foot hinged audio material
thing. It's like a, it
looks like a giant book,
like a giant black book.
It's got two, two foot
by two foot audio material
things with a hinge in
the middle. And you put
it in front of yourself
in a, in a, in
a, in a failed attempt
to make the background noise
go away. Hopefully as I'm
laughing here and I hear
the dog and the lawnmower
in the background and I'm,
I am, no one is
hearing that. It's probably just
in my head. Yeah, I
think it is in your
head. Cause I don't hear
it at all. So this
is great. And that, that
would be, that'd be success.
And Carl Franklin sent me this
and actually when we originally
started the show, Carl wanted
me to have a full
on Tartus and that's T
a R D I S,
for those of you who
are using Wikipedia to find
out what a Tardis is,
basically a phone booth that
would sit in my garage,
that I would do all
my recording via, But then
you could actually have your
house or your office in
the tartest. Cause there's so
much more room in there
anyway. I would have no
problem with that. I think
that would be good. All
right. So I've been using
my machine for two weeks
and I'm having no problem
with it. So let's walk
through this. The original goal
of course, was to get
a 7.9, the highest theoretical
score available on the windows
experience index. But a lot
of people thought that this
was a silly goal. And
do you think of it
as a silly goal? No,
I think it's, it's worth
pursuing. It's silly. It's silly
only if you have to
drop like another grand on
it to try and meet
the goal Was to make
the ultimate developer PC, but
the 7.9, I would think
it was secondary. I mean,
yeah, if we could do
it, we could do it.
That'd be great. But if
not, that's fine too. Yep.
Yep. What's different from the
ultimate developer PC. Cause the
number of people felt that
they were kind of offended
that I was just building
the ultimate gamer PC and
I really don't. I seriously
don't use this thing to
game. Right. And the biggest
thing was really the video.
Like what did you end
up with for a WPI
on, on video 7.8, 7.8.
Right. Okay. People felt that
was over the top. Like
totally not necessary. Another 0.1,
I think you would have
had to have gone up
and it's higher level of
card, like double the price
of your card or at
least another couple of hundred
bucks or something like that.
And that seems totally not
worth. And honestly, I mean,
let's just go through the
list, but I'll tell you
what I regret and what
I don't, because I think
that's really, what's important about
this is to provide guidance
to people who may agree
or disagree with our choices
and what would be right
for them. And each of
our machines ended up costing
about $3,000. Yep. So processor,
whether we get a processor,
it was a, I don't
have mine up in front
of me, but it was
like a seven, eight I
believe, right? No, no, but
like what, what process should
we buy? It was the
Intel extreme edition. I seven,
nine 80 X, right? Like
a thousand dollars, six core,
3.3 gigahertz processor. Right. And
it is, it is the
flagship desktop machine that there's
a processor you can get
from, from Intel. Right. And
Intel, it's not the only
six core. Now Intel has
one where they dropped the
price, like a hundred bucks,
but that a hundred dollars
that different Sarah is the,
the other processor is quite
a bit slower. I think
it was just, just straight
three. And doesn't have all
the unlock stuff you'd want
to do for overclocking. So
it's kind of, it's still,
it's still worth the extra
a hundred. Yeah. This, this
is known as an over
Clockers dream. Now we're not
talking about getting, you know,
well, there's a guy yesterday
who calculated PI to a
trillion digits or something using,
you know, an overclock machine
we liked, I think you
and I liked the idea
of overclocking in the sense
of I can get some
free speed or you can
effectively overclock this 3.4 or
3.3, three gigahertz processor to
four gigahertz using air cooling
and basically giving yourself a
20 to 30% speed increase
for free. Right. If you
get a top of the
line Intel processor and just
run it at stock, you're,
you're just throwing money out
the window. I mean the,
the whole point of those
processes is to let you
get some additional speed out
of that and it's free
speed effectively. Yeah. Yeah. Now
how have you been able
to overclock yours at all?
So I did just on
the bench, I went up
to 4.1 on air, just
using the stock cooler, which
is pretty impressive. That's almost
a full, a gigahertz difference
there just on stock cooling.
And it was good temperatures.
Yeah. That's pretty, that's pretty
slick. Yup. Now it is
open on my bench and
I had a big fan
blowing at it. So once
I go and shove it
in a case, I'm not
sure how high it could
go on air, but I'm
really hoping to get it
up a bit higher, at
least four or five using
the water cooling stuff where
the water cooling is, is
a bit of a fun
project for me, but still
ultimately it's about how much
stable free speed can I
get out of this process.
Right. And this is really
important, cause we're not, it's
important for the audience to
know that we're not overclocking
experts. We're not hardware walks
for developers and I, you
chose water cooling. I said,
that's too much hassle. I'm
not even overclocking that much
just because for me, if
this thing, blue screens, once,
I don't know if I'll
ever be able to trust
it again, Right. The blue
screening is a complete fail
on overclocking. Right. Okay. Blue
screening in everyday lives is
so it's so emotionally I
just got choked up there.
It's so emotionally scary that
like if a machine blue,
I mean think about that,
right? It's just like your
machine is cheating on you.
Exactly. You know, how can
I ever forgive it? It
is, it is a very
depressing experience. It is a
credit depressing. I mean, this
machine has been rock solid,
stable, and I'm, I'm I'm
I am reticent to give
up any kind of stability.
If I discover that it's
going to be great in
everyday life and it works
fine for email, but then
I decided to go and
I don't know, squish a
DVD and blue screens and
I'll be very sad. I
realized that I can run
stability tools like prime 95
and things for no overnight
to make sure that thing
is stable, but I don't
mind free speed, but I'm
going to lean more towards
stability. It's still pretty fast.
Now I'll tell you when
I was doing the research
for the cooling on this,
I was looking at all
the crazy things people were
doing with this processor. And
there are folks that build
like shrouds around the processor
and just dump in cooling
and get this thing up
to like almost six gigahertz
or they've. Some of them
have old air conditioners that
they've got hooked up to
it, like just, you know,
beat up old air conditioners
that they've gutted and ran
pipes directly onto the processor.
But these are guys that
are, you know, driving this,
get a blue screen. Cool.
Dial it back a little
bit. And I think that's
what you are. No, I
mean, this is, this is
the same kind of personality
that is trying to get
an extra horsepower out of
an old engine or whatever.
And I'm just, I'm driving
a Prius and neutral. So
definitely we're not over blockers.
So rest assured most people
could probably get away with
one processor down or two
processors down from this spot.
Yeah. A really good for
core will do well for
most folks. Yeah, definitely. Now
memory was a confusing one
to me. Cause we, we
heard in the original WEEI
podcast that there was some,
some tricks around memory. And
then at some point when
you got a fast enough
processor, the memory score didn't
really matter. But I don't
quite understand memory. I guess
I have one, three, three,
three memory, right? One, 1,333
gigahertz or megahertz rather you
got faster memory and I'm
not sure did I make
a mistake? So I got
the 1600, which just in
the research I did, if
you want to, overclock quite
a bit, you need something,
you typically need something. That's
a step above the, the,
the one, three, three, three,
but I don't think what
you got will be a
problem. Cause you can usually
go a little bit higher.
The memory you've got is
a pretty good quality memory.
It's not just the, the
stuff from the loose been
down at the computer store.
Right. So I think you
should be able to overclock
that a little bit, but
you won't be able to
go quite as high. You
don't have as much headroom.
So does that mean that,
that my initial failures at
overclocking compared to your no
problem, getting to four gigahertz
on air are related to
possibly my cheap memory It's
possible, you know, it's so
hard to tell exactly what
the kind, what the, the
weakest link in the system
is. I mean, maybe the
people who do this constantly
can immediately say, yeah, that
that's obviously memory. Right, right.
But when I look at
it, there's nothing that says,
Hey, your memory is, is
frying here. Or it's not
keeping up without doing individual
tests on each component. I
paid three 74 for OCA
Z memory that, and I
got, I got a 12
gig kit. Apparently these motherboards
really liked their memory to
all come from one place.
Yeah. They can spot like
the one man out. So
you can't buy, you know,
eight gigs and then add,
add another four gigs later
on. They really like everyone
to be from the same
family. At least when you're
in the same channel, you
know, especially like for mine,
I got two six gig
kits from the same manufacturer.
Like a single 12 gig
kit would be, would definitely
be better. I mean, you'd
probably have a little bit
more headroom, but the two,
six from the same manufacturer
is not bad. As long
as you have each set
in its own channel. So
that, you know, the three
sticks that I got together,
as one set are going
to be one channel on
the board. And the other
three that I got will
be the second channel And
you filled up your motherboard.
And this is an interesting
thing because both of us
bought the gigabyte. This is
then that's the brand named
gigabyte, a UT nine motherboard,
which is considered a big
over overpriced giant flagship motherboard.
But it has everything in
the kitchen sink. And it's
interesting because it has six
memory slots. Yup. So you
filled yours up, Right? I
mean, you can theoretically go
to, or not even theoretically
you can practically go to
24 gig on this And
not practically, I got a
12 gig kit. So three
of my slots are fours.
And then I've got room
for another 12 gigs to
get up 24. Exactly. And
24 gigs is pretty awesome,
but I was interested in
getting some speed out of
this. And I really felt
like I could do 12
gigs on this first build
and be happy with it.
And then when I wanted
to go to 24 gigs
later, I was probably going
to be better off buying
a 24 gig kit. That's
all in one. Right. Does
that exist? Same reasons you're
talking about, but they're not
quite out yet. Right. The
really good 24 gig kits
are a couple months out,
at least. So I figured
for the first time ever,
I would just fill all
the slots on my motherboard.
I've never done that before.
Well, one of the things
that I learned during this
bill, because we did the
build in public and we
had, we were unused stream.
You can go up to
our blogs and we video
streamed, the building, which is
geeky in itself was that
apparently this Intel new Halem
chip set, the chip set
that is on the motherboard
that is known for not
liking 12 gigs of Ram.
And I've had some trouble
with my box where I'll
boot once and it'll say
eight gigs and I'll boot
again, it'll be 12. And
it's about recognizing that, that
memory. And there's some kind
of a, and I thought
it was, is it that
gigabyte motherboard? Or is it
this Halem chipset? And apparently
this is a known thing.
And the other thing that's
known is that the more
memory you have, the harder
it is to overclock successfully
and the real hardcore over
Clockers will just pull all
the memory out and they'll
have like a gig or
two gigs. And then they'll
overclock. So maybe my problems
are that I'm running 12
gigs of this cheaper memory.
This is the part of
the show where I mock
you while actually Tellerik mocks
us your applications that you're
testing dependent on external systems
over which you have no
control. Maybe you're being slowed
down by those systems or
lack of availability. Responsiveness. Do
you want to do TDD?
Right? Our friends at telework
help you solve some of
those problems with their newest
mocking tool, just mock it'll
let you do fast, simple
controlled unit tests, independent of
external resources like databases, web
services, proprietary code, unlike some
mocking tools, just mock works
with non-virtual methods, seal classes,
static methods, giving you complete
control of your code. You
can get more details. You
can download just mock at
telerik.com/just mock. And don't forget
to thank Tellerik for supporting
Hanselman it's on their Facebook
fan page, facebook.com/tellerik. Thanks a
lot. Now the 12 gauge
problem that you were mentioning,
I remember either you telling
me, or I was looking
it up, that it's very
sensitive to the voltage. So
if you go a little
low, you won't get 12
gigs. If you go a
little high, you won't get
12 gigs, but if you
hit the sweet spot, it'll
recognize 12. Well, and this
is just ridiculous. Is that
worth the hassle? Right? If
I buy a Dell, am
I going to have this
issue? Right? Yeah. And the
Dells will not allow you
to overclock so they'll have
all that stuff just dialed
in. Right? So it's whatever
your tolerance is for that.
Well, whatever your tolerance is
for tinkering, isn't it? I
mean, this is the thing,
right? I went down to
the local best buy and
I said, what's the best
computer in this entire place,
which is always a cool
thing. I recommend that everyone
try that, just walk in,
like you're like packing big
cash and just say, what's
the best computer here. And
it turned out that the
one that was there is
a, a quad core. And,
but only Mac, it maxes
out at 5.7, cause best
by our local computer store
here doesn't have any machines
with SSDs, but it's basically
getting like (717) 273-7359. And, but
it's still, I mean, I
clicked around it's it's ridiculously
fast, you know, once you're
looking at a seven class
machine, it's fast. So for
a grand that's a thousand
dollars, $1,100 machine. That's a
beautiful thing. Wow. Oh yeah.
But you can't, you know,
it's all one piece, you
know what I'm saying? It's,
it's like, it's a, at
some kind of Dell, that's
all one piece and it's
not something that are going
to be able to swap
something out later and bring
new life to it. One
of the things that I
liked about the last ultimate
developer PC is that twice
in the last three years,
I have been able to
give it new life with
a new video card or
a new memory or a
new hard drive. Yep. And
I think even with that
Dell PC, I mean, that
sounds like it would be
a pretty good dev box.
If you can get an
SSD and, and be able
to crack it open and
not have a little sticker
on there that says warranty
void, if you replace a
drive. Right, right. Right. Exactly.
And actually speaking of drives.
So some of the, some
of the things that were
interesting in the building of
this machine was I put
it together and I needed
to remember to get the
latest bios for the motherboard
or the flash. The bios,
the hard drive is an
SSD. There's a crucial S
300, 300 or C 300
C 300 C 300, 256
gig SSD. I had to
flash that as well. There's
firmware on the, on the
SSD. So that was interesting.
And that involves basically burning
an ISO disc hooting off
of it. And then having
it boot into this Linux
disc and then find the
drive and then flash it.
And it's important because every
time you flash the firmware
on your SSD, you're going
to lose all your data.
So you get that. And
that minority came with to
tell you how new this
stuff is, firmware revision two,
which is the latest. So
I didn't have to go
through that whole flashing process.
Okay. Yeah. I didn't have
that. I actually did have
to flash mine. Interesting. But
also there's, there's different Satta
plugs on the motherboard. There's
sat a two instead of
three, this particular motor over
them on this board. Yeah.
This particular one has an
Intel Satta section and a
Marvel section. So I had
to decide which one of
those to plug it into
because it appeared that the
SSD was maxing out the
Intel side. It was, there
were some really weird stuff
going on there where like
the Marvell controller, which is
the six gigabit controller in
the board. If you install
the driver from Marvell, you
would end up with a
five something on the, on
WEEI. It really like knocked
the throughput in half. But
if you were able to
just use the Microsoft driver
and you didn't ever download
the Marvell driver, then you
would get a seven, nine
reinstalling a couple of times
trying that out and trying
to figure out exactly where
that step is, where that's
happening. And also just to
make sure that people who
are listening don't think that
we're only looking at the
WWII, that was kind of
our broad strokes. We were
also looking at different disc
benchmarks. And I was noticing
that the throughput on my
SSD when using the wrong
drivers are plugged into an
inappropriate port, would give me
things like 200 or 250
megabytes a second. But when
plugged into the Satta three
port with the correct drivers,
I was getting 320 megabytes
a second. Right. Which is
significant. Yup. And then when
I put this thing together
and on the six gigabit
port, sorry, we on the
six gigabit with the right
drivers, it was getting even
a little bit better than
that. Really? Yeah. Yeah. And
this is stuff you can
plug it in and it
will just work. And that's
the thing, that's the trickiest.
You can, you can just
plug this into any old
port, not think about it
and it'll just work fine.
But if you're willing to
put a little bit of
work into it, you'll realize
that there's actually performance there
that you may be missing
out on An important part
of that is what mode
you're running the drives in
or the ports. Remember you
had to decide between a
IDE or what's an ACI
HCI. Yeah. And if you
didn't have it in that
HHI mode, you wouldn't get
trimmed commands on the other
stuff that the SSD can
support. And by default, it
was just IDE mode. I
actually, I was very disappointed
with a lot of the
default settings in the bios
for this board. Yeah. They're
very conservative. They actually recommend
that you go right into
the bios and select optimized
that they're optimized or kind
of what they think of
as the defaults, the defaults
are not even anything really.
Yup. Yup. And actually another
thing, speaking of slots and
things, you turned me on
to the fact that they're
a while these are, these
have many PCI, 16 X
slots. Some of them share
the same bus. So there's
like slots one, three, and
five are on one bus
and two, four and six
on another. And I didn't
realize that I was actually
cutting the speed of my
video in half by plugging
the cards into the wrong
slots. Right. Which is bizarre,
Easiest boards are not very
forgiving. No. They really expect
you to have cracked open
the manual and kind of
done a little research before
you start plugging stuff in.
Whereas just all the motherboards
I've bought in the past.
I just, I, I take
it out of the box.
I plugged this stuff and
put it in the machine
and I'm done Well, that's
the funny thing, right? Why
someone was saying in the,
in the comments that they
said that it seemed like
it was a bunch of
cul guys trying to design
a user interface. There's like,
this is ridiculous. What are
you guys doing? You're useless.
And I was like, yeah,
man, if I, if we
were building a 46 DX,
I could rock this build.
I would be, I will
be your guy, but I'm
catching up on this stuff.
The last time I did
this bill was three years
ago with Jeff Atwood. And
he was schooling me on
all the new slots and
this and that. That's our,
that is available. And this
is the first build I've
done alone in a while.
If you go around and
read all the documents, you
know, if you're, if you're
detail oriented, you'll be fine.
But if you just slap
this together, like a 46
it'll work, but you probably
have a machine that's half
as fast as it could
be just for wanting, putting
the wrong slot, the wrong
card in the wrong slot
or the wrong chord in
the wrong, whatever. You know,
I didn't quite come out
how I imagined in my
head. But point is though
you plug the hard drive
into a set of two
and a two video cards
that are supposed to be
running multiple monitors into the
slot. That's on the same
bus and you're, you're just
was bandwidth or you're wasting.
So I ended up moving
a video card over and
everything became snappier. Nice. Yeah,
definitely. Yeah. And actually the
video card, that's the one
thing I regret everyone insisted
I should buy an, an
ATI and I just have
religious issues with ATI. I
used to be hardcore ATI
guy, literally like hardcore from
like 1989, 1990. Like I
have the first ATI, I
think it was called an
89, 14 slash EI. It
was the first ATI car
that would run 1,024. I
ran it on last 13
inch monitor. Yeah. And then
somewhere in the early two
thousands or mid two thousands,
my ATI experience went South
and I started blue screening
and I just gave up
on ATI and I went
Nvidia and I've been happy
ever since, but I made
the mistake of going with
my gut rather than going
with Tom's hardware on a
non tech and the people
in the comments. And I
bought an GTX four 70
and this, this card is
wonderful in the sense that
it's unbelievably fast, but it
is so freaking hot that
I'm running. I'm having to
like keep the window open.
I think I may have
to sell the card. It's
just too hot. So why
is it so hot? It's
90 Celsius. Wow. Wow. And
then you actually figured out
why it was 90 Celsius,
which is even more disturbing
that you might want to
talk about the multiple monitor
thing. Yes. So that was
really crazy. So you just,
just the act of plugging
that second monitor into your
card. What did it added?
Like another 50 degrees or
40 degrees Celsius or something
like that to the, to
the board temperature, which was
insane. Right. And I don't
remember if it was the
memory or the, or the
GPS clock, the clocks, just
having a second monitor. Yeah.
Apparently the deal is that
there's a bug in this
particular, it's called the Fermi
F E R M I
chip set. And the Fermi
chip set has a flicker
issue when you plug in
two monitors at a low
clock speeds. So the way
they get rid of the
flicker is they double the
clock speed and that doubles
the heat. And it's not
really literally double, but it's
the difference between about 50
to 53 Celsius on one
monitor. And literally I just
plug in the, the other
cable and it goes up
70, 80, 90, depending on
how hard the load is,
but it's enough to raise
the temperature in the room,
you know, five, 10 degrees.
And that's just insane. I
don't get how you, it,
that particular problem truthfully has
shaken my faith and Nvidia.
Cause I don't know how
you produce a boy. Yeah.
It's, it's pretty horrific. Now
the thing is that they're
saying that the, the Fermi
GTX four 60 is a
great card and a great
balance of power and heat.
And, and I've seen a
number of articles, including one
that had the headline, the
Fermi we've been waiting for,
but because I've got three
monitors, everyone's saying that I
should have just bought the
ATI affinity that would be
able to run for all
three monitors, happily and what
I ended up doing. Cause
I have a 30 inch
monitor and then two 20
fours is running the main,
the main 30 on the
new card. And then the
other two on the, a
GTX two 75 that I
had lying around. So honestly,
for, for what I'm doing,
the four 70 is ridiculous.
It's totally overkill. And I
could have saved 150 bucks,
right? I think any $200
or $250, more expensive than
usual, but not really expensive
card would be fine for
a developer. And the GTX
two 75 would have been
just fine and that's running
my two secondary monitors anyway.
Right. And you're, you're not
going to get a seven
nine, but it's a seven,
nine is a gaming machine.
Again, that wasn't the point.
The point was monitors. And
in my last developer PC,
I ran two GTX, two
70 fives. And I actually
lowered the power by getting
a, a specific brand. I
think it was called Virto
V E R T O.
That is an air. It's
an air cooled Nvidia. So
they basically modify the bore
that they get from Nvidia.
They put a giant heat
sink on it and they
have no fan. So it's
an incredibly quiet board. And
this was a great board,
three years, top line board
three years ago, very inexpensive
boards, like a hundred dollars,
$150 board now. And it
runs these machines. It runs
these, these 24 inch monitors
just fine. So to those
of you, including a anonymous
poster who eventually told me
his name was David in
the comments, I was wrong,
please forgive me. Don't buy
the GTX four 70. Now
that said, that said, stepping
aside from the, I don't
play games, I did install
steam. And I did play
Counterstrike at 2,560 by a
thousand whatever frequent relive resolution
that this 30 inch monitor
runs. And I did it
at 90 frames a second.
Wow. So that said, don't
buy this sport because Hey,
so, so I actually got
an ATI card for my
bills. I, I bowed to
the pressure from the community,
even though I had the
same experience that you did
back in the two thousands,
right. With the early radians.
Right. And it goes get
a lower score and it's
not as good of a
board performance wise as yours
is, but it's been it'll
support three displays and it
just does a great job.
Otherwise, is it hot? No,
it's, it's actually a really
cool board. It's a Sapphire
Raytheon and they don't use
the reference layout. They have
their own layout with their
custom cooling solution on here.
So it runs something like
10 degrees Celsius, a cooler
than the stock boards do.
And it comes over COVID
It's by default. Yeah. And
this is another thing to
watch out for is that
these boards, these high end
equipment that you buy and
we bought from Newegg, or
I think you bought from
some stuff from a local
shop, people don't like you
returning these from back in
the day, you could like
buy something like this at
a local warehouse, computer store,
you know, effectively renting it,
try it out and then
take it back. Not anymore.
I'm stuck with this board,
new egg, we'll swap it
for another board, but this
particular board, they don't allow
refunds on. Yeah. And they'll
only swap it for the
same thing I think. Right?
Yep. So watch out if
you're gonna, if you're going
to do something like this,
don't, don't be like me.
Right. And do it, do
your research and make sure
that you can return something.
And actually speaking of returning
things, one thing that new
egg did return nicely was
my power supply. I was
unable to get the board
to put up for the
first two days. I got
a very strange error message
on the L a on
the led. There's a little,
little red led display with
two eight digit segmented LEDs
on the motherboard on a
gigabyte. And it's meant to
help for overclocking. It's supposed
to tell you why this
isn't working. So you boot
up and your monitor doesn't
work, and maybe you don't
have a video card. And
it says two F and
you go and say, Oh,
two F and it's too
much voltage to the memory
or whatever. And I was
getting eight eight. And if
you search around on the
web for gigabyte, UT nine
and eight, eight, people think
that it's, that it's code
eight B, which I think
is silly to think that
because they would have just
used a lower case B
a right, but they're convinced
that it's like, it's a
code to code. So here's
the new slash eight, eight
is not a code. It
is actually the, all of
the segments on the segment
that display lighting up. So
it hasn't even gotten to
the part where it outputs
an actual letter and a
number. It doesn't, you know,
it's just literally just lighting
up and going eight, eight,
because everything's lit up, it's
a power supply problem. It's
not getting the voltage that
it needs. And it just
won't go beyond that. And
I was finding out of
10 boots, I could get
it to boot once. And
then I went over and
I returned my Silverstone power
supply. I picked up an
Antech and it worked instantly
and every time good to
know it's very, very persnickety
motherboard. And if you search
around, people are having all
sorts of problems with that.
And it's all power related
to some of these power
supplies just don't put out
consistent power, even though, even
though they were hiring power
supplies and Newegg, fortunately took
that power supply back and
returned it with a small
restocking fee. Yeah. I ended
up with a course air
power supply cause I've had
good luck with them in
the past. And that seems
to have done pretty well.
Yeah. You said you were
able to solve windows, how
quickly I can do windows.
So I had a really
slow USB stick that I
was using to boot directly
from an installed windows. And
even with that, it was
under 10 minutes. So I
actually ordered a replacement USB
stick that is supposed to
be just wicked fast. And
I'm just gonna try it
again and see if I
can do like a seven
minute windows seven install. And
that's including typing in the
user ID picking your time
zone. So you're saying from
completely dead naked machine, no
file system to working desktop
in 10 minutes. Yes. Yeah.
And that was just amazing.
That is nice. I happy
with the experience. Yeah. Yeah.
I mean, and, and so
what that has, let me
do this time that I've
never done before is I
keep rebuilding the machine till
I get to the optimal
configuration. Because if you, if
you tinker with some things
in the bios, it, you
know, it sets stuff up
in windows that are really
hard to change later on.
So I'm like, Oh, 10
minutes to re-install, I'll just
go and play around the
bios and learn some more
and reinstall it. And it's
not painful at all. That
is an interesting perspective. I
mean, I'm used to putting
machines together, closing the box
up and putting the box
under my desk, but the
open bench build, which is
what the pros do is
really a nice way to
do it. And that's what
I ended up doing is
just put the thing on
a big wooden door. And
it was sitting out in
my garage with a big
wooden door and change things
and move cords around. And
then didn't actually button the
thing up. Actually, honestly, I
took the, the side off,
I'm still moving things around.
It's not a hundred percent
buttoned up even, even two
weeks in, but it does
feel a lot more flexible
being able to, I think
so. Yeah. So, Hey, during
your bill, did you do
anything dumb? Well, other than
building it on carpet originally,
that was kind of stupid.
Okay. I lost a screw
once almost shorted, the whole
thing out installed windows using
IDE mode and then had
to reinstall an ACH. What
else did I do? A
couple of stupid things like
that. What did you do?
So my, my dumb thing
that I did on here
is, you know, I, I
got the thermal grease and
stuff on the CPU, and
then I put the heat
sink down, got it all
tightened up and thought, Oh,
I missed a step in
here. And so I asked
and nobody else had picked
it up though. There was
watching at the time, but
I unscrewed the whole, the
heat sink pulled it all
off and it still had
the little flat plastic protective
film on the bottom of
the heat sink. So that
was my dumb mistake for
the time. I forgot to
remove that plastic cover off
there. So I had to
clean up the CPU, get
rid of all the grease,
take the sticker off and
do it all over again.
Cool. Well, I posted three
different posts on my blog
about the experience, and I
know you're continuing your, your
series on the ultimate developer
PC. I've also got some,
some interesting benchmarks as I
built some larger projects like
in hibernate and effectively getting
to X performance for my,
my medium sized project builds
or my, my previous one.
And I'm, I'm feeling pretty
good about it. I, I,
I'm a little sad about
the video card, but maybe
I'll get someone on to
buy it from me on
Craigslist at all. Won't lose
too much money. Yeah. But
was it fun stuff? Yeah,
it was fun. It's actually,
it was most fun I
had since I built the
arcade and think about what
else I want to go.
And I still, I need
to build a surface. I
feel like I need a
big ass table. So maybe
I'll do that next. Maybe
actually, maybe I'll use the
old ultimate power, the big
ass table. That might be
good. That'd be good. Now
I've got to go. All
right. I gotta go build
this now. Great. Thanks Pete.
Thank you, Scott. This has
been another episode of Hansel
minutes. We'll see you again
next week.